wikipedia,study.com,goodreads,images adobe stock


 Marcus Aurelius Antoninus full name
Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus
Born	26 April 121
Rome, Italy
died March 17, 180, Vindobona


Roman emperor from 161 to 180 AD
best known for his Meditations on Stoic philosophy.
 the last emperor of the Pax Romana, an age of relative peace, calmness and stability
 for the Roman Empire lasting from 27 BC to 180 AD. He served as Roman consul in 140,
 145, and 161.
How he came to the throne, however, remains a mystery.
Marcus Aurelius was born during the reign of Hadrian to the emperor's nephew,
 the praetor Marcus Annius Verus, and the heiress Domitia Calvilla. His father died 
when he was three, and he was raised by his mother and paternal grandfather. After 
Hadrian's adoptive son, Aelius Caesar, died in 138, the emperor adopted Marcus's 
uncle Antoninus Pius as his new heir. In turn, Antoninus adopted Marcus and Lucius,
 the son of Aelius. Hadrian died that year, and Antoninus became emperor. Now heir 
to the throne, Marcus studied Greek and Latin under tutors such as Herodes Atticus 
and Marcus Cornelius Fronto. He married Antoninus' daughter Faustina in 145.


While he got his start as Consul of Rome, Marcus Aurelius would go on to be
 considered a great emperor in Roman history, not for any flashy accomplishments or
 grand achievements, but for his ability to administrate the empire without the usual
 Roman corruption. Aurelius was a strong administrator, who proved successful at identifying
 talent in others and surrounding himself with capable advisors. One such example
 is Pertinax, who came from humble beginnings, but was allowed to rise to the rank of
 general under Aurelius' rule. He proved an extremely capable military commander, and
 even went on to serve as Emperor for a brief three months later on



His greatest accomplishment as Emperor was his ability to hold the Empire together
 through the Roman Empire's first true pandemic, the Parthian War, and the Germanic
 Wars. He was also able to navigate ruling with co-Emperor, Lucius Verus, his
 adoptive brother



A more intimate contact with the thoughts pursued by Marcus during the troubling
 involvements of his reign, though not what would have been historically most 
valuable, his day-to-day political thoughts, can be acquired by reading the 
Meditations.

“You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.”

“Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them.”


“The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.”

“Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.”

“Waste no more time arguing about what a good man should be. Be one.”

“If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.”

“When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love ...”

“The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.”

“The soul becomes dyed with the colour of its thoughts.”

“Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together,but do so with all your heart.”

“It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.”

“Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present.”

“Our life is what our thoughts make it.”

“If someone is able to show me that what I think or do is not right, I will happily change, for I seek the truth, by which no one was ever truly harmed. It is the person who continues in his self-deception and ignorance who is harmed.”

“Whenever you are about to find fault with someone, ask yourself the following question: What fault of mine most nearly resembles the one I am about to criticize?”

“I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others.”

“If it is not right do not do it; if it is not true do not say it.”

“The object of life is not to be on the side of the majority, but to escape finding oneself in the ranks of the insane.”

“Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself in your way of thinking.”

“When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: the people I deal with today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous and surly. They are like this because they can't tell good from evil. But I have seen the beauty of good, and the ugliness of evil, and have recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own - not of the same blood and birth, but the same mind, and possessing a share of the divine. And so none of them can hurt me. No one can implicate me in ugliness. Nor can I feel angry at my relative, or hate him. We were born to work together like feet, hands and eyes, like the two rows of teeth, upper and lower. To obstruct each other is unnatural. To feel anger at someone, to turn your back on him: these are unnatural.”

“Reject your sense of injury and the injury itself disappears.”

“Live a good life. If there are gods and they are just, then they will not care how devout you have been, but will welcome you based on the virtues you have lived by. If there are gods, but unjust, then you should not want to worship them. If there are no gods, then you will be gone, but will have lived a noble life that will live on in the memories of your loved ones.”

“How much more grievous are the consequences of anger than the causes of it.”

“The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know them for what they are.”

“Do not act as if you were going to live ten thousand years. Death hangs over you. While you live, while it is in your power, be good.”

“Here is a rule to remember in future, when anything tempts you to feel bitter: not "This is misfortune," but "To bear this worthily is good fortune.”

“Look well into thyself; there is a source of strength which will always spring up if thou wilt always look.”

“How much time he gains who does not look to see what his neighbour says or does or thinks, but only at what he does himself, to make it just and holy.”





